I told you there would be a surprise during my break! I present to you another secret project–a crossover between Casualfarmer’s Beware of Chicken and The Wandering Inn!
Set directly after the events of Volume 9, a certain [Innkeeper] finds herself in
another
strange world during the magical storm. But will it be as bad as her last journey?
This has been a collaborative work between me and Casualfarmer for their birthday (and they have been very generous with helping make this so thank you twice for the birthday gift to you, Casualfarmer), and the webcomic team has helped this come to life. It’s the first crossover story that The Wandering Inn ever been done, (although we did have crossover art pieces like SelkieMyth’s piece between four webserials), and it is something I am glad exists in the world, if that makes sense. I don’t like making stuff that I feel like is worth less time or effort than I put into it, but this?
I like this. It’s a piece that fits into the story, as well. No spoilers for you who read it, but it doesn’t have to be a ‘what-if’, it means something. And it captures both story’s characters. Casualfarmer had their input and notes about how each character would act, and we both worked with the amazing art team to make sure details were in there. You get to see sides of people you haven’t seen before. Like Wa-Shi…it’s a glorious image.
I don’t want to go on too long, but I do like Beware of Chicken’s world and Canadian hero, who was a first for me in the portal fiction world. I have to catch up–Casualfarmer keeps writing and I only read on breaks when I feel able! But I do have that chicken plush of Big D in my home along with my stabbies and Erin, Rags, Bird, and Mrsha, and I like the story and author a lot. I’ll even say it: Canadian maple syrup is the best. I say this as I pour any maple syrup into wine to make it taste better, but uh, there. You’ve got my endorsement. Thank you again to Casualfarmer and I hope you enjoy this crossover.
–pirateaba
BOC x TWI : Page 1