I am exceptionally grateful to Enuryn for art like this, because I can post something during breaks. Of course, there is also the webcomic—but they’re busy with my guy Pisces’ first time coming to the inn in Volume 1. Have you gotten to him yet?
I review roughs, and therefore, I don’t know what’s public. All the Erin faces are wonderful…and I am tired.
In the Patreon post, I once again called a week-long break because the Epilogue sits at 60,000+ words, but it’s not as good as I want it to be. I could have posted it, and it would have been a fine  chapter, but I hope this coming week lets me polish the last bit.
Also, I have family visiting, and I literally started one day by having a meal out at a restaurant and made the mistake of ordering my first espresso martini with the thought ‘well, if I have a drink, this one will keep me awake’.
…It did not balance life out. I’m at that stage where a drink puts me to sleep faster. The point is, the week off also saved me from compromising family and writing, and I might have, uh, compromised one to a significant degree already.
I wake, I write, I sleep, some days. And editing is still harder than days when I just write nonstop because editing is reaching the bar, not just the act of pushing forwards.
Let me focus on the comic for a moment. Do you enjoy these? Would you like these as a regular thing? Feedback matters (but be nicer because it’s Enuryn, not me), and let me know if you want some different locales or themes to the story. More food? Less? More exploration, or more culture?
I work with Enuryn on each comic, so yes, Grimalkin definitely has posters of Lady Pryde (which she paid for), all over his gymnasiums. Also, the horses on the wagon that hit his students were meant to have damaged the poor Drakes in the first draft.
I corrected it and asked Enuryn to edit the scene because Grimalkin’s students are the ones who walk away from the wagon collision, not the other way around. I hope you enjoy, and wish me luck. One last week, for real this time.
—pirateaba
Previous Chapter
Next Chapter