Another update of Tales of Innworld while I’m on break! It’s the last one I’ve got saved…Enuryn worked hard on this, offering another view of how a Liscorian
outside
the city would live.
…My break feels like it’s vanishing way too fast. I’m starting to be a normal person now, with normal activities like drinking during breakfast.
Allow me to explain. I wake in the evening, at what some people call ‘dinner time’. Sometimes people want to have a meal with me and we go out to a restaurant where they serve the alcohols. So I have a drink…to start my day.
I didn’t choose this lifestyle, but I feel like it’s very writer-ly. Anyways, the point is that I’ve been starting to consume media again. Not up to books yet, but I’m getting there. This week, I watched the pilot episode of Gaslight District, from the same group who did Amazing Digital Circus. I watched it, then replayed the video because it was amazing.
Animation, sound, top-notch. It’s ‘adult western animation’ and it’s not something I’ve really seen until now. I think these indie groups who are making this kind of stuff that hits the mainstream is great and compelling. I’ve often thought that The Wandering Inn could only ever appear as an anime if it ever were to get adaptation into a TV show, but seeing these incredible creations makes me think there’s a growing industry that it could fit into.
Well, I watched that pilot, then I watched Hazbin Hotel, which was also recommended to me. Which I describe as uh, if Frozen were about demons in hell and taught life lessons and swore a lot. But it wasn’t bad–it sold me around Episodes 4-5 that this had bones and was great, so that’s two for two! Two shows I binged in two days and I didn’t have a mean thing to say about them.
I wonder if I’m getting sick. Aside from that, I’ve been listening to the Garden of Sanctuary audiobook and appreciating Andrea’s work. I forgot how much I liked the opening to Volume 7. Soon, I hope to begin actual reading of stuff, but I’m feeling more the thing–or maybe it’s the cocktail I imbibed. Hope you’re having a happy…Easter? Yeah. Eat an egg for me, and hope you enjoy the comic!
Previous Chapter
Next Chapter